chore(ibc): add 0429 incident (#2)
cosmos/incidents: ibc/2025/0409_galaxy.md

# IBC Eureka vulnerabity - Galaxy - 2025-04-09

## What happened?

Asymmetric Research discovered a critical vulnerability in the Ethereum light client we were using on the Cosmos Hub and Lombard. We proceeded with an emergency critical upgrade on the Hub, which gave us the authorization to migrate IBC Wasm light clients.

## Root cause

The Ethereum light client did not correctly verify the sync committee, i.e. did not verify that a pubkey is part of the committee. Additionally, an issue with pubkey verification allowed to use non-existing public keys, allowing to bypass the sync commitee signature check.

The reason we needed an emergency patch on the Hub is because we expected significant volume of tokens between Ethereum and the Hub. We could not migrate the light client itself in the upgrade, which meant that we needed to be given rights to migrate the light client ourselves.

> Sync committee size verification was dropped because we had to support two hardforks at the same time and could not do it properly because of deadlines.

Reviewer: This reads as a little unclear, is this a root cause for the issue or a statement about the solution?

Reviewer 2: +1 about lack of clarity. I'd also like to see an impact statement here - this got categorized as something so critical that we rushed the chain through a manual halt upgrade with very little notice and halted for four hours. The incident report should make the reason for the categorization very clear even for readers who are a few steps removed from the code where the issue was identified.

> ## Action items

Reviewer: To me, it makes more sense for action items to be after learnings, but don't care too much.

> - Set up security council on the Hub, similar to the one on Ethereum

Reviewer 3: Based on Barry's feedback - I still think this is a bit vague. In order:

- "Set up a security council on the Hub similar to the one implemented for Eureka contracts on Ethereum to... [oversee what changes]"
- Figure out a better.... For what specifically? What do we solve?
- Convert TODOs into potential security risks (TODOs were not mentioned anywhere else, so it is a bit unclear). Maybe "Convert any pending engineering TODOs left over as trade off pre-release as potential security risks".

Reviewer 2: Given that this action item is already in progress, you could identify the details - it's the same security council participants duplicated on the Hub, and they will have authority to to do xyz operations which previously could only occur through 14 week governance on the Hub or a migration (requiring 7 day governance or writing a non-gov upgrade handler).

Reviewer 2: Surely the action items here ought to address more than one of the lessons learned? There are 6 lessons learned and only one got an action item. What about building a process for how to disperse security details to relevant parties?

> - Set up security council on the Hub, similar to the one on Ethereum

Reviewer: I think it would be good to just have a single sentence saying that these are the things we are planning to implement to prevent this in the future or something like that. And each item seem like they need a bit more context to be understandable.

Separate from that: are we tracking these anywhere?

- Figure out a better critical emergency process between Hub <> ICL <> Hypha
- Continuously validate threat models in external dependencies (for example - using Optimism's failure mode analysis)
- Convert TODOs into potential security risks

## Learnings

- We did not have the same tools used for security on the Hub (e.g. security council) as we did on Ethereum - for emergency upgrades this is a must
- We did not have confidence on the level of security details we should reveal to whom
- We did not have enough knowledge on how BLS aggregation works
- We need to raise risky decisions earlier on (reducing type safety to hit deadlines)
- We shipped security features (rate limits) that we had no concept of a plan for using
- The Cosmos Hub's team should have been involved in the patching process
    - This makes coordinating with external partners (i.e. Hypha) much easier

## Timeline (UTC)

> - 2025-04-09 14:43: Issue reported by AR

Reviewer 3: Assymetric Research*

Reviewer 2: I think this is what Nico's saying as well but I'll echo it: "Hub <> ICL <> Hypha" should be "Assymetric Research <> ICL's Hub team <> Hypha's Hub team" to be clear about which orgs are present and the scope of each team's responsibility.

> for emergency upgrades this is a must

The security council replaces emergency upgrades, it doesn't participate in them. Change to "for emergencies this is a must".

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if this document is an artefact of a retro that took place (and thus shouldn't have stuff added) or if it's allowed to be a living document, but I'll offer this feedback either way and you can choose if it's appropriate to include. As a member of the Hub team is that this lesson learned - "The Cosmos Hub's team should have been involved in the patching process" is not precise enough given what's shown in the timeline below. 

The timeline shows that some other party made the decision about how to upgrade the Hub, and then informed the ICL's Hub team and Hypha not of the security issue, but that an upgrade was required. The Hub's retro called us all to task for accepting this instead of pushing back and insisting on knowing the details before approving an emergency upgrade, and I would like to see something symmetrical (haha) in this retro as well - it's not appropriate to tell the chain team that they need to upgrade in a particular way because it takes decision-making power out of the hands of the experts

The other lessons learned are of the form "we did not have/do X when we should have" and I'd argue that this one should be the same - "We did not involve the Hub teams in the decision to push an emergency upgrade to the Hub" and it warrants an action item - "figure out the the process for involving relevant chain teams in the patch and upgrade process".

> - 2025-04-09 15:00:	Triage has started by the Security + IBC teams

Reviewer 3: Verbs are inconsistent
- Has started
- Vs Issue is triaged
- VS hub team was notified

Better to use neutral:
- Issue triaged and verified
- Decision to continue made 
- Hub team notified
- Fix releases
- Fix reviewed...

And so on...

In general, in this timeline we can reduce some items. Line 39/40 can be merged into 1. Notified Hub and Hypha team. 

Line 37 - Decision to continue with Eureka launch, and decision regarding upgrade process made.

# IBC Eureka vulnerabity - Galaxy - 2025-04-09

## What happened?

Asymmetric Research discovered a critical vulnerability in the Ethereum light client we were using on the Cosmos Hub and Lombard. We proceeded with an emergency critical upgrade on the Hub, which gave us a temporary (24h) authorization to migrate IBC Wasm light clients.

## Root cause

> The Ethereum light client did not correctly verify the sync committee, i.e. did not verify that each pubkey is in the committee. This allowed an attacker to trick the light client by generating a new sync committee with the same aggregate pubkey.

Reviewer 4: I will also mention the specific steps that are needed to exploit this:

1. The attacker needs to have relaying permissions.
2. The attacker generates a fake sync committee (private-public key pairs) so that their aggregate key matches that of the real sync committee.
3. The attacker signs a malicious client update using this fake sync committee and relays it.
4. The attacker can fake any packet or timeout now.

> The Ethereum light client did not correctly verify the sync committee, i.e. did not verify that a pubkey is part of the committee. Additionally, an issue with pubkey verification allowed to use non-existing public keys, allowing to bypass the sync commitee signature check.

Reviewer 4: I don't think we allowed a bypass of the signature check. Instead, a different sync committee's signature is checked.

```suggestion
The Ethereum light client did not correctly verify the sync committee, i.e. did not verify that each pubkey is in the committee. This allowed an attacker to trick the light client by generating a new sync committee with the same aggregate pubkey.
```

## Critical decisions

### Emergency upgrade on the Hub

We determined that the best path forward was to do an emergency upgrade on the Hub, which would allow us to migrate the light client. We made this decision under the assumption that the Eureka launch would incur a significant amount of volume between Ethereum Mainnet and Cosmos Hub and as such the issue needed to be patched as soon as possible.

> ### Relaxing security assumptions

Reviewer 4: Should we have mentioned the fact that relaying was permissioned
